.. title: Looking back at the "Tanel" project
.. slug: 20170512
.. date: 2017-05-12 14:07:54 UTC+02:00
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text

Looking back at the "Tanel" project
===================================

Rumma & Ko is sad to announce that we stopped our employment contract
with Tanel. He was employed at Rumma & Ko from January to
April 2017. Only four months. We had been hoping for a much longer
period.

The idea of engaging Tanel had been very intuitive. His immediate
advantage was that he lives in the same village as I do. After my
first meeting with him I felt "Yes, I want this guy as my local
assistent".  I had no clear idea about what he was concretely going to
do, but we were both confident that he would find himself his place in
the Lino project.  He is a talented and intelligent young man with a
wide view at this world.

After a few experimental weeks we found the Vilma project to be ideal
for him. This project is probably a great idea, and we will maybe
continue to work on this project together. But we also realized that
it would not be easy to make money with that project.

Thanks to Tanel I realized that Lino is not yet interesting enough for
stakeholders who think big.  Hamza, Tonis and I believe in Lino
because we are *developers* and see its inner beauty.  Many Lino
*users* believe in Lino because they are using it every day and they
feel that database design is more important than web design for their
work.  But *deciders* look at software from the outside and judge it
by the user interface and the documentation.  Actually Lino *does*
need somebody like Tanel who helps us with managing and promoting the
Lino project.  But for the moment that guy obviously needs to live in
Belgium and speak both German and French.

I also learned that the Estonian market is not yet interesting for
Lino. There is more than enough work for us with our Belgian
customers, we simply have no human resources for starting promotional
low-budget projects in Estonia.

As a summary we are grateful for these four months of enriching
relationship with Tanel who will continue to support the Lino project
as a volunteer.  He is a guy who thinks big. I can recommend him as a
product manager of a medium-sized company or organization.  And maybe
he will even return back to our team as Lino gets bigger.
