.. title: February 2017
.. slug: 20170222
.. date: 2017-02-22 14:07:54 UTC+02:00
.. tags: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: Luc Saffre

Here is Luc's status report after three weeks with three employees
working on Lino.

**Tonis** is learning quickly. Of course understanding Lino is a lot
of work, but already he brings his own ideas into Lino. For the moment
he is working on the comments module.  Also he has more experience
than I with Git branches, so it is he who gives me hands-on training.
We are working on the CI workflow and try to improve the
testing. Let's hope that Lino will soon be stable enough so that
getting started is a painless experience for more future Lino hosters
and application developers.

**Tanel** is currently working for the Vilma project. The idea is to
use our home village as a prototype user for a new variant of *Lino
Care*. This work is more sociologic and administrative than technical:
how should it work, how do people react to it and who is going to pay
for it.  Let's hope that this project will become a beautiful success
story about how Free Software makes this world better.

**Luc's** work is getting more diverse.  Besides programming he now
must meet with Tonis and Tanel and tell them what he expects them to
do. And before telling them he must find it out himself.  With Hamza
this was much less of a problem because he is a freelancer.  With this
increased workload Luc is definitively not getting enough sleep. Lino
cannot yet help with measuring sleeping time, but Luc estimates that
he is currently running with 4 hours of sleep per day. That's clearly
not enough.  Let's hope that this period doesn't last longer than his
body is able to bear up.  Beyond all that he has more and more the
feeling that it was the right decision to engage Tanel and Tonis.


