.. title: Tanel left Rumma & Ko
.. slug: 20170512
.. date: 2017-05-12 14:07:54 UTC+02:00
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text

Tanel left Rumma & Ko
===================================

.. Looking back at the "Tanel" project

Rumma & Ko is sad to announce that we stopped our employment contract
with Tanel. He was employed at Rumma & Ko from January to April 2017,
only four months. We had been hoping for a much longer period.

Tanel had been working mostly on the `Vilma project
<http://vilma.lino-framework.org/>`__. We plan to continue on this
great project together, but we also realized that this is rather
social research than making money.

.. TEASER_END

Thanks to Tanel we realized that Lino does not yet look interesting
for stakeholders who think big.  Hamza, Tonis and I believe in Lino
because we are *developers* and see its inner beauty.  Many Lino
*users* believe in Lino because they are using it every day and they
feel that database design is more important than web design for their
work.  But *deciders* look at software from the outside and judge it
by the user interface and the documentation.

As a summary we are grateful for these four months of enriching
relationship with Tanel who will continue to support the Lino project
as a volunteer.  He is a guy who thinks big. I can recommend him as a
product manager of a medium-sized company or organization.  And maybe
he will even return back to our team as Lino gets bigger.

Actually Lino *does* need somebody like Tanel who helps us with
managing and promoting the Lino project.  But for the moment that guy
obviously needs to live in Belgium and speak both German and French.
We wrote a `job offer </jobs/ma/>`__ which describes our expectations.

..    
    The idea of engaging Tanel had been very intuitive. His immediate
    advantage was that he lives in the same village as I do. After my
    first meeting with him I felt "Yes, I want this guy as my local
    assistent".  I had no clear idea about what he was concretely going to
    do, but we were both confident that he would find himself his place in
    the Lino project.  He is a talented and intelligent young man with a
    wide view at this world.

    After a few experimental weeks we found the Vilma project to be ideal
    for him. This project is probably a great idea, and we will maybe
    continue to work on this project together. But we also realized that
    it would not be easy to make money with that project.

    I also learned that the Estonian market is not yet interesting for
    Lino. There is more than enough work for us with our Belgian
    customers, we simply have no human resources for starting promotional
    low-budget projects in Estonia.

