.. title: Lino News #1 -- August 2015
.. slug: 
.. date: 2015-08-11 17:07:02 UTC+02:00
.. tags: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text

===========================
Lino News #1 -- August 2015
===========================

Dear friends of Lino,

.. (click `here <http://luc.lino-framework.org/news/20150811.html>`_ if you
   prefer to read this mail in your browser.  You received it because I
   added you to this low-traffic newsletter mailing list about the `Lino
   project <http://lino-framework.org/>`__.)

I felt that it is time to start a newsletter where I try to write once
in a month about what's going on in the project.  About 20 software
developers and 10 non-technical stakeholders in the world are reading
this right now because they showed their interest in Lino during the
last years. Not a huge number, but it's worth a newsletter.

.. TEASER_END

Lino applications are used by several dozens of end users on at least
4 production sites, the eldest since January 2010.  I am booked out
for paid customer projects until end of 2016.  And all users,
including their site administrators, are mostly satisfied.  So nothing
to complain there.  `GitHub
<https://github.com/lsaffre/lino/graphs/commit-activity>`__ reports an
average of ten and at least two commits per week. So at least *one*
developer is having a lot of fun with Lino, and one family is being
fed by it.

I believe that Lino would be able to feed many more families than
mine.  But it seems that this belief is not very contagious, at least
not *per se*.  So the big challenge for Lino is to evolve into a
community-driven project.  This evolution is slow.

**Newbie problems and documentation**

For example, it is still quite hard for Python newbies to get started
with Lino. This is difficult to fix for a single developer.  In order
to discover a "newbie problem" I need a beginner who stumbles over
it. And beginners tend to run away as soon as they stumble over a
problem (or at least their initial fascination gets a little crack,
and often that's fatal for their motivation in a world with so many
other fascinating things.)

Documentation in general is another challenge. I often invest many
hours into it and then I feel like fighting with a `Hydra
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lernaean_Hydra>`_ which gets two new
heads for every head cut off. But actually it *does* evolve. It *is*
getting better. Slowly.

Lino would be well documented if it had been "born" into an existing
team of developers somewhere in a company.  But I also dare to claim
that one reason for Lino's geniality (in some places) is the fact that
it was free to grow in a single person's mind before needing to face
community.

Yes, Lino grows slowly, but steadily and in a sustainable way.
Growing slowly is not bad.  This differs from the usual opinion about
successful startup projects.  It is because Lino is such a big beast
and because I am the only full-time developer. So actually I don't
complain about these problems, I just do my best to work on them. And
any help is welcome.

**A ticketing system for Lino**

Slow as we are, one important infrastructural problem of the Lino
community might have been solved recently. I speak about *Lino Noi*
the ticketing and time tracking system written *in* Lino and *for*
Lino.

Quite some developers have asked me "Where is your ticketing system?
Where can I pick up some issue to work on?"  I have been trying
several systems: Google code when it started, GitHub issue tracker,
Trac). But none of them satisfied my needs.  After several months of
hesitating whether it is a good idea to reinvent the wheel, `Lino Noi
<http://noi.lino-framework.org/>`_ went into production in April.  It
is also the CMS behind `the Lino Team's web site
<http://team.lino-framework.org/>`_.  It is experimental, poorly
documented, young and naive, but I am *using* it everyday, and am
*satisfied*.  You probably don't imagine what this means.

The next step for *Lino Noi* is to get some more users. So if you have
some experience with ticketing systems, you might help Lino by
donating two hours: contact me and ask me to show you Lino Noi, and
then tell me your ideas and suggestions.


Luc
